The Joe Rogan experience.
To have you, have you ever been to Teotihuacan?
No, I've never been there. I heard it's amazing.
No, if something really interesting happened to me there now, when I,
that not only is this square that we want to stand on this earth
mound and this guy who his nickname was gorilla giving us this wonderful tour,
just to spot the most romantic tour ever of this place for such a
rough place. And he goes, wait right here. And we're in this giant square.
And he runs down this dirt mound about, I don't know, say 150 feet away,
200 feet away. And he goes, can you hear me? And it was like, oh my God,
I could hear him. He goes,
this square was built with these mountains here to be able to speak at this
voice to 250,000 people. Whoa. And I was like, what?
And then we walk up there. Yes, that's great. Well it's okay. That way.
And then go left.
You could look this way so you don't have to look backwards. Yeah.
It's over here. So, so if we were to see that square,
if we were to go straight around that pyramid and make a left,
that's where those mountains are. And, and the, the other thing is,
and these that's the same shot from a different angle.
That's near where these hype, these shaman lift, the Straumann had quarters,
like an area of this place. And there was this there's these, um,
sort of things. And I said, what are these? And he said, their reflection ponds.
I said, oh, like for like reflecting. And he goes, no,
no for reflecting. And I'd never considered that.
You don't look at the stars by going,
but that really you look down and you mark.
So in seven years when it comes around again, you're like, oh, pattern.
Cause I'm always like, how do you look up and learn a pattern of that? Right,
right, right. But by looking down.
Oh, that's crazy.
So they had ponds just to look at the reflection of the stars and map them out.
Yeah. The shaman did, that was like in their neighborhood. And if you,
the way we're showing is if you had a birthmark on your head,
when you were born,
they immediately were like two boards rope and just put two boards and rope two
and began a lifetime of, of like, so you're a shaman,
which if you had a lifetime of that, you'd be like, hi, shaman shot. Hey Sean.
I mean, it's so it's like being born a Royal,
always the Sharman don't squeeze the show even more weird. Right. Because.
You don't have a history or a bloodline of.
It. It's just, it's the study of what we are. And that,
that is significant because I felt, it felt to me immediate like, well,
everyone can't do that. We need, you know, you don't have a thing on you.
So if you don't have the birthmark. Yeah. I mean, that's a really good, like,
uh, entry. Do you know at the gate when you went.
So that th th that the Aztec temple as a musician, when you're sitting there,
did you like, did it make sense? Like the acoustics,
like the way it's set up the, the, the way the sound works,
does it make sense to you? Like a real construct?
It, um, it,
it left a very lasting feeling of
that we're supposed to be here and that, um,
you know, it just, it really restored a lot of faith in humanity. I,
I didn't focus on the ritualistic murder that was going on there.
It was just the CR that's, the one set of people.
The other set of people built this, and they knew, and they knew,
and you know, much like the great pyramids that are really,
you know, in the shape of a Ryan's belt. Exactly.
That same concept of like, what's going on here matters. And if,
if that is your focus, think of how wonderful it can be. You know? Like,
how did those people know how to make that with no, without, you know,
they say without the wheel, that'd be like, really helpful.
Seems insane. Yeah. The Aztecs didn't have the wheel. Right. Allegedly.
Yeah. How the did they do all that? Well,
at least the way they did it physically, you can kind of like, they,
we know that they,
they murdered 80,000 slaves in a period of just a few days
after the construction of that temple.
Yeah. So it was like, don't tell me, actually, don't worry about it.
I'll take care of it.
It's like say that they were going to be slaughtered.
I think it was kind of like part of the gig.
Yeah. Well.
Maybe I'm wrong. I might be wrong about that.
Well, I, I, it, it doesn't with that many people.
It wouldn't sound surprising that you'd have some cooperation. I mean,
it's hard to imagine 80,000 people at once going, sorry, what?
And not being like, well, this man. Yeah.
That sounds like a cooperative event to me somehow, unless they were.
Somehow or another locked up and they brought them out one by one.
That's an awfully big cage you've got there. Yeah.
It isn't. Yeah. 80,000. That's quite an arena. Yeah.
Yeah. They could have to build an extra one of those just to hold them.
You've got a giant football arena filled with.
That big it's that big. And, and, um,
that what struck me as just the, because I play music as I thought,
okay. That means these acoustics are so perfect. Like who,
how do you discover that? Are you in a canyon? And you're like, wow,
this sounds, can you hear me over there?
And then you sort of triangulate and start doing the
geometry for how that works and like, oh, quick someone in veggie on,
but geometry first though. Cause I don't know it's. I mean, how does that
manifest itself? That understanding.
How many thousands of years did it take before they figured out how to.
Construct something or someone on their death bed. It's like, wait,
one last thing, I kind of thought.
Acoustic sound kind of bounces off. That's.
Gotta be shaped like this, but the Pythagorean theorem, you know.
I've never been to any of the Aztec temples,
but I went to a Cheech Anita and saw some of the Mayan temples.
And it just they're there whenever you were at a place like that,
that's just magical. That's so old.
And amazingly constructed, you just think,
what the was it like to live back then? Like,
do we have a terrible idea of what they were like, like, course we don't know.
Well, but it sort of dawned on me at some point that it was like, oh,
you mean the people that wrote our history wrote it as, from the perspective of,
by the way, we're way better, way better, but okay.
Here's the story of these other people. Right.
You know what I mean by it by some kind of winner. Right.
Right, right. A Dick head winner with guns. Yeah.
Like before we get started,
I'm better than the person I'm going to tell you about.
We can't, even though we can't do what they did, because what.
Is the emotion when you, when you're in that space, I'm trying,
I'm trying to think of the right word to describe how I felt there. Right.
And I guess, all right. Yeah. It's it really is. It is art, but also there's a,
there's almost yeah. Reverence and there's almost like, uh,
some strange gratitude. Yeah. Like where you're like,
thank you for I'm so thankful to be part of this.
Even just by living in the time to appreciate this. Yeah.
It feels it's. So, um,
it feels like knowledge expanding that I don't have. So I just feel like, oh,
if I can have a piece of that, if I can understand a piece of that,
but just standing there as sort of understanding it, right.
We have such an egotistical perspective when it comes to our personal
civilization that we let like this with the internet and with cars and with
planes and all that, this is the best way to do it.
There's a word for it. I can't w R can you try to find such a thing
please? Um, what is the word?
I know there's a word for the word definition is to believe that the
era you were in is the finest of them all up to this point. I think.
Yeah. I've heard that word. I know what you're saying. That is.
It's some kind of syndrome. Exactly.
It certainly was created by a man. There's some guy who's like, do the fun.
Yeah. I don't think it was a girl. If it was, he was like one of them.
All right. Phil bell checks.
Don't don't you wish that there was like a supportive mother. I was like, yeah,
sure, honey, you're the best too. This is the best.
Your number was way about him. It's yeah. Don't worry about him guys. He's fine.
You're the best.
Yeah.
It's like at the same thing with the native Americans and the settlers that the
settlers were imposing their lifestyle,
but the people that experienced the native American lifestyle,
they wanted to stay living like that.
For sure. Well, I think because it omitted some of,
so many of the things that the European culture was bringing. Yes. And,
and you can see,
it seems less like a distinct possibility that,
that European perspective, like when Pizarro and all that,
you know, was it 12 of them?
stores killed like a thousand natives in a, in a matter of hours. When,
you know, when they land, they're looking for gold, everywhere. Right?
At first they have this,
this belief that something big will come across the water and be their,
and here comes a ship with a bunch of dirty that literally factually dirty
have written across the boat. And, and, you know,
I think about that perspective where they obviously were like,
these people are nice, but I've had enough of this.
They should have invented ships were better. So let's kill everyone here. Yeah.
Well.
That's what I mean, Cortez, Cortez. That's what it is. Yeah.
Yeah.
They didn't know what was going on because I don't think that previous to that
time they'd ever seen anyone on a horse before.
No. And, and come across,
you imagine a big boat and then a few horses where they're like, what the is.
Yeah. Uh, Gary, come over and look at this. It's just, it's impossible to find.
I'm a man riding a beast. They're probably like what in the? Yeah.
With like rusty armor from being on a boat for months. Yeah.
Like looking like being desperately, like,
like I imagine their relief when they come up on these horses with this armor
and all this stuff, and they're like, they're cool. This is going to be easy.
You know? I mean, I, at first they,
they must have thought maybe we could do this with some Goodwill,
but quickly it's like, you guys are too primitive.
We're just going to take over here.
And thought they were going to do it with Goodwill.
I don't think there was any Goodwill back then.
I think people were just murdering people.
Do you think that there's,
perhaps that more people took more lives in a way,
like for per capita or something like that?
It was a more brutal way of taking lives.
I'm sure people take more lives today in war. But I think back then it was just,
it was hands-on.
Right. But, but, um,
it seems like more percentage of the people that are alive had an opportunity or
the possibility to kill someone today too. So it's like, if you,
if you are with 150 people, all of which have killed at least three people,
right. That's an interesting group. And then you land.
On a boat.
And you've been there for months. You're like, maybe, maybe you are like,
we got to kill somebody and rape something and take something as quick as
possible.
I have no idea what the they're saying. Cause he can't speak their language. So.
It's easy to just, and they're being nice. So you're like,
they're going to these people up in 5, 4, 3
silent count. And it's bizarre.
Oh,
that's the history of mankind is men showing up in boats and
killing everybody that they met.
And then kind of doing their own version of a selfie on the dead button. Yeah.
Right. Yep. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Have draw me.
Well,
imagine what it would be like if you could be a fly on the wall when Montezuma
met Cortez just to be there and see what that was like when these people
who had never encountered Spaniards before,
and these guys show up in these boats.
With two absolutely different beliefs and perspectives of what's
about to go down. What's crazy. Is that.
That is why Mexico speaks Spanish. Yeah.
People don't get that in their head. Like, oh max.
It's why all of south America, except for Brazil Brazell is Portuguese.
Yeah. I mean, people, we don't get it in our head. Like Mexico speaks Spanish.
Why did they pass horses? Spain's way the over there. How,
how has where they speak Spanish? That kids,
it makes no sense. But then you realize like, oh my God,
they were conquered by the Spanish. Whoa. Yeah. In a long,
long time of time ago, long. it. Because I,
because of having a, my music teacher as a,
as a young boy drill the song in 1492 from Spain through wind
and store, man,
the name of the paint of the scent that 14 92, 14 92,
which is which by my watch is a long time ago. It is, it is.
But it's not, you know,
like I had a joke in my act about the United States being founded in 1776.
People live to be a hundred that's three people ago.
That's real though. I know it sounds up when you hear you funny,
when you hear it, it sounds like you see, right. Well, that's not right. Well,
what's funny is that's totally true. Yeah, it is right.
I mean that's we just got here. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Yeah.
The thing is anything that happens before you were born,
it seems like a million years ago. Of course,
but also 1776 seems like yesterday to me,
I wasn't alive and I'm ready to admit that, but I, that seems like, oh,
that is just very close. I'm sure. Recent. Yeah.